------------ Structure your Bicep code for collaboration ------------

One of the benefits of deploying your infrastructure as code is that your templates are shareable, allowing you to colaborate on your Bicep code with other team members.

It's important to be able to author Bicep templates that are clear, reusable, and well documented.

Some additional information here: https://github.com/Ba4bes/Bicep-NamingConvention/tree/main


Improve parameters and names:
Parameters are the most common way that your colleagues will interact with your template.
When they deploy your template, they need to specify values for the parameters.

How understandable are the parameters?
Parameters hel make Bicep files reusable and flexible. It's important that the purpose of each parameter is clear to anyone who uses it.
- Default values simplify the process of deploying your template. If your parameters have good default values that workfor most of your template's users, the users
can omit the parameter values instead of specifying them every time they deploy the template.
- Default values provide an example of how you expect the parameter value to look. If template users need to choose a different value, the default value can provide
useful hints about what their value shoul look like.

Bcicep can also help to validate the input that users provide through parameter decorators.
- Descriptions
- Value constraints (decorators) --> @allowed(), @minValue(), maxValue(), minLength(), maxLength(), etc.
- Metadata

IMPORTANT: be carefurl when you use the @allowed() parameter decorator to specify SKUs. Azure services often add new SKUs, and you don't want your template to unnecesarily prohibit their use.
Consider using Azure Policy to enforce the use of specific SKUs, and use the @allowed() decorator with SKUs only when there are functional reasons why your template's users shouldn't select
a specific SKU. For example, the features that your template needs might not be available in that SKU. Explain this by using a @description() decorator or comment that makes the reasons
clear to anyone in future.

Flexibility: provide free-form configuration options. Use predefined configuration sets.

Provide free-form configuration options:
For example, both the App Service plan and the storage account require that you specify their SKUs.

Think about the people who will work with your template. Seeing dozens of parameters might overwhelm them and cause them to abandon using your template.

You might be able to reduce the number of parameters by grouping related parameters in the form of a parameter object, like in the following example:

param appServicePlanSku object = {
	name: 'S1'
	capacity: 2
}

However, this approach can reduce your ability to validate the parameter values,, and it's not always easy for your template users to understand how to define the object.

Use predefined configuration sets:
Alternatively, you could provide a configuration set: a single parameter, whose value is a restricted list of allowed values, such as a list of environment types.
Example below:

@allowed([
	'Production'
	'Test'
])
param environmentType string = 'Test'

var environmentConfigurationMap = {
	Production: {
		appServicePlan: {
			sku: {
				name: 'P2V3'
				capacity: 3
			}
		}
	}
	Test: {
		// ...
	}
}

The predefined configuration sets approach is sometimes called t-shirt sizing. When you buy a t-shirt, you simply choose from small, medium and large sizes, and the
designer has predefined those measurements based on that size.


In Bicep it's important to give your resources meaningful names:
- Symbolic names: are used only within the Bicep file and don't appear on your Azure resources. Symolic names help users who read or modify your template to understand
the purpose of a parameter, variable, or resource definition, and they help users make informed decisions about whether to change the template.
- Resource names: are the names of the resources that are created in Azure. Many resources have constraints on their names, and many require their names to be unique.

Every resource has a name. Names make up a part of the resource's identifier. In many cases, they also are represented as the hostnames that you use to access the resource.
- Add a parameter that's used to create a uniqueness suffix. This helps to ensure that your resources have unqiue names. It's a good idea to use the uniqueString() function
to generate a default value. Be sure to use the @maxLength() decorator to limit the length of this suffix so that your resource names won't exceed their maximum lengths.
- Use variables to construct resource names dynamically. Your Bicep code can ensure that the names it generates follow your organization's naming convention as well as Azure requirements.
Include the uniqueness suffix as part of the resource name.

IMPORTANT: it's better to use uniqueness suffixes rather than prefixes. This approach makes it easier to srt and to quickly scan your resource names.
Also, some Azure resources have restrictions about the first character of the name, and randomly generated names can sometimes violate these restrictions.
Although, not every resource requires a globally unique name. 


Order in Bicep template files:
It's important to consider the order of your elements to ensure that your template is clear and understandable:
- Group elements by element type: (params, vars, resources and outputs, in that order). --> If you follow this order approach, consider putting the target scope at the top of the file.
- group elements by resource: alternatively you can group your elements based on the type of resources that are being deployed. 
(gral. params, storageAccount params and vars, staorageAccount resource declaration and outputs, adn then all the params, vars, resource declaration and outputs of another resource
and this order consecutively...). (It's a better practice to create modules for groups of related resources, and then use a simnpler template to combine the modules).

White spaces help create structure: blank lines, or white spaces, can help you add visual structure to your template. By using white space thoughtfully, you can
group the sections of your Bicep code logically, which can in turn help clarify the relationships between resources. Consider adding a blank line between major sections.


How do you define several simir resources?

With Bicep, you can use loops to deploy similar resources from a single definition. Look for places where you define multiple resources that are identical, or that have few differences in their properties.
Then, add a variable to list the resources to create, along with the properties that differ from the other resources.
Example:

resource cosmosDBContainers 'Microsoft.DocumentDB/databaseAccounts/sqlDatabases/containers@2020-04-01' = [for cosmosDBContainerDefinition in cosmosDBContainerDefinitions: {
	parent: cosmosDBDatabse
	name: cosmosDBContainerDefinition.name
	properties: {
		resource: {
			id: cosmosDBContainerDefinition.name
			// ...
		}
		// ...
	}
	// ...
}]


How do you deploy resources only to certain environments?

By using the if keyword, you can selectively deploy resources based on a parameter value, a configuration map variable, or another condition.
Example:

resource logAnalyticsWorkspace 'Microsoft.OperationalInsights/workspaces@2020-03-01-preview' = if (environmentConfigurationMap[environmentType].enableLogging) {
	name: logAnalyticsWorkspaceName
	location: location
}


Dependencies:
ARM and Bicep have the concept of child resources, which makes sense only when they're deployed within the context of their parent. For example, an Azure SQL database is a child
of a SQL server instance. There are several ways to define child resources, but in most cases, it's a good diea to use the parent property.

Hard-coding property values: this would be a good practice only when you know the values won't change.


Document your code by adding comments and metadata:
Good Bicep code is self-documenting (clean-naming and good structure). 
In some situations, though, you might need to clarify certain code by adding extra documentation to your Bicep files.

You can use comments with a similar syntax as in JavaScript:
- Single-line comments: using '//'
- Multi-line comments: using '/*' to open the first-line space of the comment and then add '*/' at ending line of the multi-line comment section.

Although, avoid using comments for obvious and clear parts of your code. Having too many comments actually reduces your code's readability.

Add comments to parameter files:
Parameter files enable you to create a JSON file to specify a set of parameter values for your deployment.

IMPORTANT: When you work with parameter files and other JSON files that include comments, you usually need to use the .jsonc file extension instead of .json.
This helps VS Code and other tools understand that comments are allowed.

Also in your Bicep templates you can use the '@description()' decorator to explain the purpose of params and vars.

You can also use this previus description approach within resources, adding the 'description' keyword and its value (description: 'description here.') property in the properties of a resource.


Apply resource tags:
Comments in your Bicep fiel don't appear anywhere in your deployed resources in the Azure Portal, although, tags associated with the resources does.




